# Spellcasting

* Spell cast as an action finishes casting at the begining of the next subturn. 
* While casting a spell, caster must maintain concentration on the spell (separate from concentration on an active spell)
* Spell cast as a bonus action is cast instantly
* Reaction can not be used while casting a spell
* Only one action spell and one bonus action spell can be used turn. 

*Rules regarding one spell per turn still apply during active subturns.*

# Combat

Combat is split into:
* Rounds
    * Split into turns
        * Split into Subturns

### Subturn

* Each turn contains 3 subturns.
* During a subturn, character can move and perform an action. 
* Actions may take more then 1 subturn (such as lifting an object, or opening a lock)

##### Movement

Assuming 30 movement speed:
* Character has 10 speed avaliable during their subtorn
* Features and abillities granting additional movement grant a movement pool, that can be used as additional movement per subturn.

##### Attacking with a weapon

* Only one attack can be made per subturn, up to number of avaliable attacks.
    * Dual-wielding creature can make an additional weapon attack with the second weapon as part of an attack. This feature can be used once per turn.

##### (Action) Dodge

* As an action, until the start of your next subturn, you prepare to dodge the first attack you can see (or otherwise reasonably detect).
* Once attacked, you perform a standing long jump in a chosen direction, plus the remaining movement for this subturn.
    * Attack roll made against you misses, unless it is a critical hit.
    * If you leave the area of effect or the range of an attack as part of this action, you are not affected by the attack.
    * If avoiding the attack requires a DEX abillity check or saving throw, you gain an advantage on the roll. 
* Movement as a result of dodge does not provoke attacks of opportunity.

##### (Action) Block

* As an action, until the start of your next subturn, you prepare to block the first attack against you.
    * You gain +2 to AC for this attack.

##### (Action) Intercept

* Ready an attack as an action. When the attacker performs the specified attack, you attempt to catch them off guard by attack at the same time.
* You must specify a target creature, the type of attack you are intercepting (melee, ranged, grapple, etc.), and the action you will be performing.
* The action must be a form of an attack, such as melee or range attack, a grapple, spell, etc.
* Before the attacker hits or misses, you perform your attack. You gain bonus +2 on the attack roll or to the save DC.
* If your intercepting attack succeeds, the opponents attack or dc are lovered by 2.
* At the dicretion of DM, the bonus or the drawback may be higher.

# Items

##### Shield

* Grants additional +2 AC when using Block action

